			ICAPS 2009 Workshop on
	Generalized Planning: Macros, Loops, Domain Control
	    	         Sep 20th, 2009

             http://www.cs.umass.edu/~siddhart/genplan09/

		  	 Call for Papers
		  	 ===============

               	   Extended Deadline: June 28, 2009

Overview
--------

Research in classical planning has led to significant improvements in
planner performance. However, lack of scalability with respect to the
number of objects in the domain remains a longstanding open problem.

We invite contributions from researchers working to address this
challenge. Possible research directions include generating plans that
solve multiple problem instances by employing rich plan structures
such as loops, using domain control knowledge for reducing the cost of
planning, and other related areas. Common to many of these approaches
is the notion of a generalized plan -- a rich representation that
resembles a computer program with branches and loops. While approaches
exploiting such representations have demonstrated promising results,
many fundamental challenges remain.

The broad goal of this workshop is to provide a forum for discussion
and evaluation of techniques for building scalable planners that
utilize rich representations for expressing knowledge and solution
plans. An additional objective is to re-evaluate some of the most
fundamental, traditionally accepted notions in planning about plan
structure and representation of domain knowledge. Some of the
questions motivating this workshop are:

	  - How can we effectively find, represent and utilize
            high-level knowledge about planning domains?

	  - What makes finding plans with complex control structure
            difficult?

	  - What separates planning problems from program synthesis
            problems?

	  - What are the computational limits to the feasibility of
            these problems?

 	  - Can restricted -- practical, yet efficiently solvable --
             formulations of generalized planning be developed?




Topics
------

Topics of interest to this workshop bring together research being
conducted in a range of areas, including classical planning, knowledge
engineering, partial policies and hierarchical reinforcement learning,
plan verification, and model checking. Potential topics include but
are not limited to: 

 - generating plans with loops 
 - generating parametrized plans 
 - instantiating parametrized plans 
 - learning macro actions 
 - planning with complex actions 
 - learning domain control knowledge 
 - planning with domain control knowledge (e.g., Golog, HTNs, control rules) 
 - reasoning about complex actions 
 - planning with partial policies 
 - plan verification 
 - generating robust or partial schedules 


as well as applications of these ideas in: 

 - planning with plan scripts or schemas 
 - work-flows 
 - web service composition 
 - grid services 



Paper Format and Submission
---------------------------

We invite technical papers (up to 8 pages), position papers (up to 2
pages) and papers with clear and concise formulations of open problems
and potential solution approaches (up to 4 pages). Non-technical
papers can be more exploratory in nature; however, complexity analyses
of proposed solutions or comparisons with existing approaches are
encouraged. We invite submissions describing either work in progress
or mature work that has already been published at other research
venues.  Submission of previously published work in whole or in part
may be in the form of a resubmission of a previous paper, or in the
form of a position paper that overviews and cites a body of work.

All papers should be typeset in the AAAI style, described at
http://www.aaai.org/Publications/Author/author.php.

Papers should be submitted in PDF form by email to genplan09 "at"
cs.toronto.edu, with "Genplan-09 submission" as the subject. Queries
about the submission procedure or other details can also be sent to
this address.

While the workshop itself will not have any registration fees,
workshop participants will need to register for ICAPS-09.



Important Dates
---------------

Paper Submission Deadline	Extended to June 28, 2009
Author Notification		July 22, 2009
Final Version			Aug 8, 2009
Workshop Date			Sep 20, 2009 



Program Committee
-----------------

Chitta Baral, Arizona State University, USA 
Adi Botea, NICTA and Australian National University, Australia 
Alessandro Cimatti, IRST, Italy 
Maria Fox, University of Strathclyde, UK 
Hector Geffner, ICREA, Spain 
Robert Goldman, SIFT, USA 
Subbarao Kambhampati, Arizona State University, USA
Ugur Kuter, University of Maryland, USA 
Gerhard Lakemeyer, Aachen University of Technology, Germany 
Hector Levesque, University of Toronto, Canada 
Sheila McIlraith, University of Toronto, Canada 
Karen Myers, SRI International, USA
Bernhard Nebel, University of Freiburg, Germany
Stuart Russell, University of California, Berkeley, USA 
Sebastian Sardina, RMIT University, Australia 
Manuela Veloso, Carnegie Mellon University, USA 
Brian Williams, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA 
Shlomo Zilberstein, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, USA 



Organizing Committee
--------------------

Christian Fritz, University of Toronto, Canada			(Co-Chair)
Sheila McIlraith, University of Toronto, Canada
Siddharth Srivastava, University of Massachusetts Amherst, USA	(Co-Chair)
Shlomo Zilberstein, University of Massachusetts Amherst, USA


